October 6th:

  An Energy System Model covers at least two Sector --> Elec Only is not ESOM! Zitat Constantin
  
  - Sector only Model has boundaries
  - Sector coupling also looks at where Energy is best used.
  
  P2H, P2M, P2G, DU (PowertoHeat, PowertoMobility, PowertoGas, Direct Use)
  
  Sectors are always described in input/output relations with efficiency, so pretty easy to describe. Abllity in urbs exists in its basics, but no in depth equation for Electrolyses etc. For next paper bring urbs to
  a state where it maps the most Important Sectors and also Different Energy Demands, not Elec only, aso Heat, hydrogen for industry etc.
  
  A model does not predict anything, it shows Pathways! Ways to the future, not a prediction. We can not describe anything, we can though create robust results for short-term. 
  
  Transmision increase rate done as % , Scenario sets that, for example 5% per year. Invest in €/GW/km. 


  AD MODEL URBS-EXTENSION:
    - comparing BESS from urbs to GENESYS-Mod schows 50% lower Bess installed in our model. Propably due to way lower Energy Demand and strict linkage to solarPV expansion in urbs!! 

October 7th:

  GENESYS MOD in Perfect Foresight, has availability to do rolling horizon, but not inside a year. 
  
  Thought: does it make sense to rewrite my model? Structure it differently? It does not look clean, we also have to think about temporal resolution, potentially
  cluster and solve for representive week for e.g with hourly resolution. Atlite for weather data and generates timeseries for model use! Download ERA5 data on PC
  and then run Atlite locally to create "cutouts" so basically like its done in pypsa. I mean this at least should not be too hard right?
  But dont forget, this is not our scope, we want to model in low resolution but with robust results that can display the supply chain.
  
  How do you decide on a representative weather year?
  A: There is no right Weather Year, you could check Sensitivity from a couple years. Or run a very bad one as sort of worst case. 
  Sensitivity Analysis, explain why you used this year.
  
  Timeseries: 
  Clustering or representative Time Data, avg winter, avg spring, avg, autumn, avg summer day --> disjoint time series. Cluster Size Important to choose.
  Reduced Timeseries: not a 1:1 cutout, we try to use an algorithm to reduce timeseries but keep characteristics. 
  Every 25th hour gets sampled starting Jan 1st ending Dec 31st.Then this is applied to another non-linear optimization that scales this timeseries to match original one.
  So Genesysmod gets reasonable results with 16 timesteps in generation capcity, but it is important to mention, 
  that the Demand is spread across these timesteps and is fluctuating, we have to do this, now it is evenly spreaded in urbs-extension!!! 
  Also the LoadFactors have to be adapted then.
  
  What is the ideal resolution: it depends on what you want to do. Probably for our case with policy design etc. what we do is okay. 
  
  Time Slices: defined by user ex ante and then averaged across timesteps. What we do in urbs-extension with a year slice. Not Ideal to analyze Electricity. 
  
  Thought: I think we definitely need to think about adding other Sectors to actually be able to say how much wind and pv we need, 
  hydrogen would be interesting and also the capacity expansion in general, since the Demand is way higher as seen in the first urbs-solar Paper. 
  
  Flexibility&Storage Session:
  
  - DSM, Storage, BEV, Heat, Transmission, Dispatchable PP, Distribution reinforcement
  - Storage: PHS, BESS, Hydrogen, Compressed Air Energy Storage
  - Capex, opex, o&m, Lifetime / Cycles, Response Time, Roundtrip Efficiency, Energy to Power ratio (E2P) 
  - Energiepark Bad Lauchstädt Hydrogen Produciton on Site and direct shipping to a refinery: provides 2% of yearly hydrogen demand (30MW Electrolyser, sau org)

October 9th:

  Pathways:
  - Discount Rate: 5-10%
  - PP Efficiency should not decrease ove time, rather introduce a new more efficient technology.
  
  General Comment: We could probably run in larger temporal or spatial resolution! Solving Time is very very low in urbs atm <2 seconds. 
  And no storage&Transmission probably keeps computational time very low.
  
  Get the Duals from our Res Vertex, thats actaully the LCOE. 

Key Takeaways:

need to get rid of increasing efficiency. It should be introduced as a new Technology. 
Look at Sector Coupling, Heating and Industry in the first steps. Also then Demand would match better with the TYNDP in my opinion.

ToDo: Also adapt Input data, regarding the new technologies with better Efficiencies, so cap-up till certain year 0, then activate it. 
Probably create a script that writes my Excel Files in the Structure i need. Question is if we need a higher spatial and temporal resolution, 
so transmission grids and storage becomes necessary. If so, implement BESS into Storage.py script, dont know how difficult that is though.










